plena be in a culture that often
encourages competition instead of
cooperation Michael Pritchard has a
unique way of teaching kids about
happiness middle school isn't that a
wonderful time when you're all right
talk to the booty the hands off duty
talk to the pond you're not the bomb
lose your donor wannabe whatever no does
shut up i read it on myspace shut i love
eighth-grade boys on the phone they go
tight oh oh oh sad haha hey hey hey who
is this while my parent like Britney
Spears on Jeopardy
how many of you every day see a kid here
who gets isolated teased picked on
laughed at and has become the target of
lots of other kids teasing and bullying
raise your hands please raise your hands
high high look around the room please
look how disconnected we get over stuff
I mean how many of you guys play that
video game Grand Theft Auto my city you
run over homeless people you beat a
prostitute to death with a tire iron you
run over cops paramedics fire for am i
right yeah we love you guys a great
teacher named Helen Keller was asked Oh
miss Keller it must be hard for you to
be blind and she said it would be if I
had no vision because we really see with
our hearts think about what your hearts
are seeing that sometimes disconnect you
think and this can be the little words
just the little words I was a coach out
of Special Olympics you ever seen a kid
run and laugh yeah i was out there at
Special Olympics a below 11 year old
girl who I'm coaching boom the gun goes
off and she takes off running what a
heart what a spirit and I hear kids say
cruel things to her but she's a good
teacher she takes off front yes well
this is not the Olympic form runner
she's in every Lane and she gets all the
way down to the finish line forty yards
in front of everybody and she stops and
I was her coach and I said Annie no come
here you win the gold medal no coach I
said I got an they're catching up walk
to me snap it come here no Mike please
and she turned around and she put her
hand out for her friend who turned and
put her hand out for her friend and then
all six kids held hands and came across
the finish line together and she goes
Wow together we all would you eat
together we are we're doing
I know that there are kids in this room
who have been teased and picked on and
left out and isolated can I get a
volunteer of somebody who can share what
it feels like big round of applause come
on down
I'm very proud of you son stand alone
I'm probably tell me what happen
sometimes what do they say I have an
impression disorder in ADHD so it just
feels like life it doesn't it feels like
it shouldn't be this hard it's just like
every day after school you start crying
for no reason what I did Seth you Ben
nerd Loser gay all that stuff what has
it done to your heart son just makes me
feel really bad is it fair to you know
is it fair to any kid at this school no
stop a minute not on the football field
not on the basketball court not all the
best academic classes or languages you
have will you see Benicia middle such
courage as this this is the courage you
should learn to love and respect and
honor give his heart a huge round of
applause that's courage guys who else
can share everybody knows I'm Joey so
I'm like the shortest kid inside this
room nobody else is shorting me so
everybody makes fun of me ever no man up
stop a second now Joe take a deep breath
how should we all treat each other come
with the love now buddy come with the
love come with Allah how should we all
treat each other Joey we should we
should just feel how they feel and tell
him that ain't right you should be doing
it give that a huge round of applause
good job
good job good job compassion leads to
happiness
joy comes from that connection to others
the best thing we can do for child is to
help them learn love